Table 2.8 Evaluation themes for the criteria REPRESENTATION for the design studio "Destination Moon" (Marc M. Cohen)

SPACE ARCHITECTURE ELEMENTS
--------------------------------------------

Subtheme             | Explanation
-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------
Multiple access       | Multiple accesses reflect a design that provides two or more
                               means of entry to important areas, rooms, or spaces.
                               There are many functional and safety reasons for why
                               multiple accesses can be an asset.
Dual remote egress | Two or more remotely separated exits from a given room
                               or volume is a hallmark of the earliest life safety and fire
                               codes on Earth. It deserves equal or greater attention in
                               a space habitat.
Multiple circulation  | A circulation loop refers to a means of perambulating or
loops                         translating around a space habitat or base. Multiple routes
                               or loops would be beneficial for flexible and varying uses.
Public space            | In a space habitat with five to six or more crewmembers,
                               there will be common living, gathering, and circulation
                               areas in addition to shared workspaces. Common living
                               spaces include the wardroom, galley, exercise, and
                               entertainment areas.
Vertical circulation   | Nearly all the projects incorporate high ceilings or multiple
                               levels in the habitat. The ways in which the crew can
                               access these parts of the total volume serves as an
                               important functional element. 
Private quarters       | Providing a private living space and sleep quarter stands as
                               one of the most widely recognized requirements since
                               Raymond Loewy’s design for the Skylab sleep quarters.
Work or lab area       | Most crewmembers will go to the space habitat or base to
                               work, doing engineering, research, science, or technology
                               development. They will need suitable accommodations to
                               perform these tasks.
Plant Growth Area     | Self-sufficiency in food will emerge as a vital capability to
                               sustain human space settlements. In addition, the partial G
                               environment presents opportunities for agricultural research.
Life support               | Life support is a sine qua non of a space habitat. The
                               issue for the studio Destination Moon is the extent to
                               which the architects recognize the role of life support
                               and make some accommodation or indications for it.
Surface mobility       | The ability to travel safely and in relative comfort over
                               distances on the lunar surface.
Use of robotics         | Autonomous, robotic, and teleoperated systems are
                               already becoming ubiquitous in the space exploration
                               environment. Surely, these capabilities will act as an
                               integrated element of the Destination Moon base.
EVA access airlock | Travel on foot to explore and work will remain essential
                               for nearly all EVA activities on the Moon. Therefore
                               the space habitat should include some type of airlock
                               provisions.
